I go into a little fit of jealousy every time I hear someone about my age that
does something amazing, or someone younger than me doing something better than I
have. It's in my nature: I'm a competitive boy. But, in silent retaliation, I've
decided to argue that we are, in fact, ageless.

The most common example of the aforementioned example I encounter is when
someone skips a math class. This happens frequently at our school so that it's
not uncommon to see a boy from two grades your junior excelling in your grade1.
I feel so inferior, and this makes me rage: Why couldn't I be that one kid,
going ahead so far in school? Why didn't I shoot ahead when I had the chance2?
In the end, all those should've-could've-would'ves and what-ifs have done to me
is killed me. In the words of Holden Caulfield, when I hear a superstudent like
that:

> It kills me.Holden Caulfield, Catcher in the Rye3

I know another "superstudent." My Dad's friend's son has skipped two grades, and
is the top of his class (literally, by a test score), even beating out his
second in the class sister who is in that grade. But even hearing about those
geniuses who are accepted into college at ridiculously young ages, even though
they are so distant and will likely never interfere with my life, it saddens
myself when I put my accomplishments up to compare with theirs. I've done so
little. It makes me feel like Holden always does.

Chances are, I'll do at least somewhat decent in life, with some decent job and
a decent salary. But I don't know how great I'm going to achieve. Even if I do
go and pursue my passions and live a life of satisfaction— knowing that I did
what I felt-like doing— where will I end up? I want to be up there, but
everyone4 is fighting to be up there. There's a quote5 something along the lines
of "Not everyone can be in the top 99th percentile. The lower 99 percent have a
life, too!" And it's true.

But what I was trying to get to specifically was age. Why do we care so much how
far ahead we get above other people when we're still so young? Why does it
matter if we're 15 or 16 or 14 or 12 or maybe even 42 in sophomore year of high
school? Why do we care so much if we're just a little bit ahead of others at our
level?

And I argue that it doesn't matter. We're just making a big fuss out of
everything. What doesn't matter is the now. Instead, what matters is the future.
The lasting impression. After all, "the ends justify the means"— so if you've
gotten ahead one year or achieved x, y, and z so many years before so-and-so, so
be it! It all depends on what you manage to achieve in life holistically, a
final collection of things you've done being more important than the individual
ones and the moments you've done them.

Back to the examples I've given. Sure, if they've gotten ahead in math, let them
be. This isn't to say you should slack off, but work to your full potential. If
you can get there sometime later, if you can muster the determination to catch
up, then they don't have anything over you. My uncle, for example, is finally
getting his college degree because he didn't have the financial ability to
attend a university when he was younger. But he knows full well that he still
has the chance to make it up. He missed the original, most advantageous window
of opportunity, but he still has a chance. Oftentimes6, if a person toils
steadily and tries his honest best, the little differences in age become
negligible.

The short bursts of energy that get you ahead don't matter. Being "good" for a
little bit is useless. It's the long term that counts. We are ageless.

As a side note, if you haven't noticed, I'm trying to avoid the little text and
parentheses that I often use as a sort of aside to the reader. I'm instead
switching it over to a footnote system, a basic one which I have implemented
here. I hope to make it more official in the future, perhaps with a
scroll-to-footnote feature as in Wikipedia7.

1: This has not yet happened to me, but a person once in my grade did go up two
math levels.

2: As in in (not a typo) middle or elementary school, where the curriculum
totally would have allowed me to go far ahead of the grade.

3: No specific page number needed because there are so many usages of that
phrase.

4: Everyone but people like Holden

5: I'm afraid to quote this because I cannot find this quote and I do not know
its author. It's just the general jist.

6: If you're really old or really young (e.g. perhaps less than five or greater
than eighty years-old), then this may not apply. But I believe it works
otherwise

7: With one major difference: Wikipedia's system's is mainly for citations,
namely "references (bibliographic citations)"; their secondary concern is the
same as mine: "explanatory information."