Wow. That was the most un-creative title I've fabricated in the past few years.
I've got to work on that. But I'm tired right now, and it is appropriate for the
rather dull task the assignment entails. These are all in response to homework
reading journals for Catcher in the Rye
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Catcher_in_the_Rye].

A Narrator / Character Thing

When Holden says, "I'm quite illiterate, but I read a lot" (18), I was
intrigued. It sounds like a silly thing to say— how can you be a well-read and
ignorant person? But I thought it was really a moment of the narrator talking.
Holden notices, but he didn't really feel. He points out two thoughts blindly:
he is illiterate, and he likes to read. In a normal context, they would be one
and the same, and that kind of paradox does not exist often. However, in
Holden's case, they are two things, in the literal sense. He does not notice the
connection between the two, and he simply restates that he acts childish and is
not very smart— the "illiterate"— and that he likes to read— the "I read a lot".

A SELF Thing

Holden says that Stradlater "was a very sexy bastard" (32), a comment that
challenges the idea of Stradlater's ego. Holden pointed out often Stradlater's
fake-ness because of his "damn good build"— however, looks are looks are looks,
and they shouldn't interfere with personality. If not for his personality, would
his great looks alone have changed the way Holden thought of him? I believe that
the idea of self is too-much altered by our looks: Stradlater is "sexy," and
acts in the selfish, snobby way that matches his looks. Ackley, on the other
hand, is the opposite: he's a snob both on the inside and the outside. Holden
doesn't really focus on his looks so much, and he doesn't focus much on his
personality, either. I thought this was very interesting.

A YOU Thing

I really don't understand how Holden can simply leave Pencey Prep like that. It
is a place he knows, a place that he should feel that he belongs to— but he
doesn't. He doesn't care about it like he doesn't care about his entire crumby
life. Out of spite and anger, he simply yells, "Sleep tight, ya morons!" (52)
and left via taxi— in addition, he left not to his parents to tell them what
happens, but to a hotel to hide away. I found this extremely ridiculous and
senseless: how does he live with himself? Has he no sense and morals? I am a
clingy person who gets to know things slowly and doesn't let go for a long time;
I cannot simply leave so quickly and rashly. How and why does he do it?

An ITSY-BITSY Thing

One humorous line I found was when Holden was outrightedly lying to Morrow's
mother and hearing her phony responses: "Sensitive. That killed me. That guy
Morrow was about as sensitive as a goddam toilet seat" (55). In his voice and
personality, when he accuses others of phoniness, it sounds as though it
actually is killing him. As if he is the dramatic, phony one that is dying right
there, because of that. Even stranger is how he continued to converse with her,
even though he was implying how Morrow was actually "the biggest bastard that
ever went to Pencey" (54) in undertones. It's just paradoxical how he's cursing
the mother for being phony when he himself is lying, which is what I would
consider even more phony.